---
layout: member
category: staff
title: Dr. Swaroop Ghosh
image: Ghosh-Swaroop (2022_08_09 13_53_15 UTC).jpg
role: Professor
permalink: '/team/swaroop-ghosh'
social:
    
    linkedin: https://www.linkedin.com/in/swaroop-g-8896745/
    google-scholar: https://scholar.google.com/citations?user=RJ1JOgMAAAAJ&hl=en
    github: 
    website:
    orcid: https://orcid.org/0000-0001-8753-490X
    research-gate:
education:
 - B.E. (Hons.)- IIT Roorkee
 - Ph.D. - Purdue University
---

Swaroop Ghosh (SM'13) received the B.E. (Hons.) from IIT, Roorkee and the Ph.D. degree from Purdue University. He is an Associate Professor at Pennsylvania State University. Earlier, he was with the faculty of University of South Florida (USF). Prior to that, he was a Senior Research and Development Engineer in Advanced Design, Intel Corp. His research interests include emerging memory technologies, hardware security, quantum computing and digital testing.
Dr. Ghosh served as Associate Editor of the IEEE Transactions On Circuits and Systems I and IEEE Transactions On Computer-Aided Design and as Senior Editorial Board member of IEEE Journal of Emerging Topics on Circuits and Systems (JETCAS). He served as Guest Editor of the IEEE JETCAS and IEEE Transactions On VLSI Systems. He has also served in the technical program committees of more than 25 ACM/IEEE conferences including DAC, ICCAD, CICC, DATE, ISLPED, GLSVLSI, Nanoarch and ISQED. He served as General Chair of ISQED 2021, Conference Chair of ISQED 2020, Program Chair of DAC Ph.D. Forum 2016 and track (co)-Chair of CICC 2017-2019, ISLPED 2017-2021 and ISQED 2016-2017.
Dr. Ghosh is a recipient of Intel Technology and Manufacturing Group Excellence Award in 2009, Intel Divisional Award in 2011, Intel Departmental Awards in 2011 and 2012, USF Outstanding Research Achievement Award in 2015, College of Engineering Outstanding Research Achievement Award in 2015, DARPA Young Faculty Award (YFA) in 2015, ACM SIGDA Outstanding New Faculty Award in 2016, YFA Director’s Fellowship in 2017, Monkowsky Career Development Award in 2018, Lutron Spira Teaching Excellence Award in 2018, Dean's Certificate of Excellence in 2019 and 2021 and Best Paper Award in American Society of Engineering Education (ASEE) annual conference in 2020. He is a Senior member of the IEEE and the National Academy of Inventors (NAI), Associate member of Sigma Xi and Distinguished Speaker of the Association for Computing Machinery (ACM).
